So you have finally arrived, Odysseus, noble son of Laertes.
Oh wise prophet, did you foresee my visit?
Yes I did. But before I answer your questions I want to drink some of the blood from the sheep that you have sacrificed.
Mmmmm! This is good blood <qns>
Of course! I only offer the best that I have! <choice 1>
Hurry up old man, I do not have all day! <choice 2>
That will be ten gold for every sip. <choice 3>
I see. Now that I am filled, I will answer your question. <choice 1 ans>
Be patient young one, or you might meet an unsightly end… <choice 2 ans>
Only death awaits those with a filthy mouth. <choice 3>
You want to know about your return home, but heaven will make things hard for you. Poseidon still holds a bitter grudge against you for blinding his son.
Still, after much suffering you may get home if you can restrain yourself and your companions when your ship reaches the Thrinacian island, where you will find the sheep and cattle belonging to the sun, who sees and gives ear to everything. If you leave these flocks unharmed and think of nothing but of getting home, you may yet after much hardship reach Ithaca.
However, if you harm them, then I forewarn you of the destruction both of your ship and of your men. Even though you may yourself escape, you will return in bad plight after losing all your men in another man's ship, and you will find trouble in your house, which will be overrun by high-handed people, who are devouring your substance under the pretext of paying court and making presents to your wife.
When you get home you will take your revenge on these suitors, disposing them by force or fraud in your own house.
After killing them, you must take a well-made oar and carry it on and on, till you come to a country where the people have never heard of the sea and do not even mix salt with their food, nor do they know anything about ships, and oars that are as the wings of a ship.
I will give you this certain token which cannot escape your notice. A wayfarer will meet you and will say it must be a winnowing shovel that you have got upon your shoulder. Upon hearing this, you must fix the oar in the ground and sacrifice a ram, a bull, and a boar to Neptune.
Afterwards, go home and offer hecatombs to the gods in heaven one after the other. As for yourself, death shall come to you from the sea, and your life shall ebb away very gently when you are full of years and peace of mind, and your people shall bless you.
All that I have said will come true.
Thank you wise one. I will be on my way now.